imagine sitting down at a fancy 50 a
plate restaurant and tearing into a
16-ounce steak with your teeth instead
of cutting it not only would this be a
pretty frustrating experience but you'd
probably be getting a look from your
boss as he wonders why he's still
letting you expense dinner and as with
steak software becomes much easier to
manage if you split it up into smaller
chunks before eating or rather using it
this approach is actually used by lots
of larger services today where they
split whatever it is they're providing
into lots of small micro services and
our friends at ibm sponsored this video
so we could tell you all about it to
explain what a micro service is let's
imagine you're using a site like netflix
every time you perform some small action
on the website skipping forward logging
in paying a bill
all of these functions are handled by
different dedicated micro services a
concept that netflix actually pioneered
and all of them are held in virtual
containers you see the traditional way
for a site to handle tons of users at
once was to run lots of separate
instances of the same code in virtual
machines or vms
you can learn more about virtualization
in this video but the basic idea is that
a vm is a separate session of an
operating system running inside another
os and a typical server can run many vms
at once which helps a great deal when
many people are accessing a site but
running a full vm and the associated
software that you need typically
requires millions of lines of code and
oftentimes a user wanting to complete
just a simple task might require the
server to open up more full vms which is
pretty inefficient and can end up
hogging cpu cycles and other resources
microservices in containers by contrast
only contain the code for a specific
task so we could be talking about just a
few thousand lines of code instead of
millions going back to our netflix
example you might have one container for
credit card authentication another for
the review system another for the volume
slider and so on and so forth so if lots
of people are using certain micro
services the system can just create more
instances of that specific container
instead of having to open up more full
fat vms in fact google runs about 2
billion containers at any given time
because they're so easy to scale thanks
in part to a system called kubernetes
the greek word for captain which google
developed to manage containers
automatically and although this sounds
like it might only be relevant to
network engineers it actually has real
benefits for you the home consumer
if there's a problem with a service or
if the developers want to add a new
feature they don't have to search
through 10 million lines of code to find
the issue and then possibly break the
entire thing in the process
instead they can just change the one or
two microservices that they want and
leave the others untouched meaning that
fixes and new features can be pushed out
quickly with less risk of causing other
problems the container paradigm also
offers speed enhancements as servers can
run smaller microservices much more
easily without tons of vms slowing them
down this has back end reliability
implications too because it usually
takes mere seconds to deal with a
problematic container meaning that the
potential for lengthy amounts of
downtime is lower
so all this means that containers are
being used for tons of applications
games like league of legends and
fortnite rely heavily on containers to
reduce lag by easing the load on their
servers and pokemon go also used
containers to fix issues shortly after
the game's launch and add new features
without disrupting the millions of users
who were playing the game at the time
banks are also using containers with
kubernetes to handle loads of
transactions at once without slowdowns
and even ibm's supercomputer watson
which has been heavily utilized in the
healthcare industry has transitioned to
using containers instead of monolithic
virtual machines so it turns out that
small containers have actually made life
a lot easier kind of like digital
tupperware a big thanks to ibm for
sponsoring this video ibm's linux one is
one of their incredible business
machines that's what ibm stands for you
know no i'm just kidding it's it's
international doesn't matter anyway the
linux one is their ultimate container
and kubernetes platform using red hat
openshift linux one comes with all sorts
of great security gizmos like hardware
encryption so your containers are gonna
be much better protected from all sorts
of nasty attacks and linux one can
handle
loads of containers up to 2.4 million on
a single system and it can even handle
really big containers which is useful if
you are containerizing your existing
monolithic applications before you
refactor them into microservices
this means that your apps run more
reliably especially when lots of people
are using them finally your containers
can run on the exact same system as your
data so you don't suffer delays while
data travels across the network this
means faster games and happier cyber
monday shoppers so go check that out
right here at the link in the video
description just
try to contain your excitement so thanks
for watching guys like dislike check out
our other videos leave a comment if you
have a suggestion for a future video and
don't forget to subscribe and follow